xvi INTRODUOTION.

had become almost desperate, when a revolution in the
state of affairs at Rome brought him in a moment un-
expected assistance in his great difficulties.

8, Afterthe departure of Sulla the Marianpartyhad

again got the upper hand in Rome. Sulla was deposed
from his command, and the consul of the year 86, L.
Valerius Flaccus, was commissioned to carry on the war
against Mithridates in his place. But as Flaccus was no
general, a skilful and experienced soldier, O. Flavius
Fimbria ²², was sent with him as his lieutenant. By his
severity and avarice Flaccus made himself so hated by
the two legions which composed his army, that a divi-
sion, sent on in advance into Tbessaly, went over into
Sulla's camp, and it was only with the help of the more
popular Fimbria that he succeeded in keeping the rest
of his troops from deserting. When they had crossed
over into Asia, the lieutenant‚ a man capable of any
crime—he had served his apprenticeship as a satellite
of Marius—made use of the feeling in the army to
seize the command for himself, after falling upon and
killing the consul in Nicomedia ²³. The Senate winked
at the offence, and confirmed the murderer of his own
general in his command ⁹⁴. Fimbria, having been thus
put at the head of the army, inflicted several defeats
upon the son of Mithridates, who bore the same name⁸⁶‚
and marched to Pergamum, the capital of the Pon( 20.
king since his victory over Aquillius, where he neai‘ly
succeeded in getting the king himself into his power*-

22) For Fimbria see note on pro Rosc. Amer. ξ 33.
2¹⁵) App. 52. 24) Memnon, 34. 25) Memn. ib. 2⁰) App. 52.

